- [Instructor] Going through the entire process
of building your application, creating a Docker image,
updating Kubernetes manifests,
re-applying those manifests to Kubernetes cluster
could be daunting when you want to focus mostly
on building your application.
This is exactly where deployment pipelines help.
This chapter will show two types of deployment pipelines.
One, that you can run during your local dev setup,
and another that can run reliably in the Cloud.
The first option that we will consider is Skaffold.
Skaffold is an opensource come online tool
that facilitates continuous development
for Kubernetes applications.
Skaffold provides an opinionated,
minimal pipeline to keep things simple.
You can iterate on your application source code locally,
then deploy to a local or remote Kubernetes clusters.
Skaffold detects changes in your source code
and handles the pipeline to build, push,
and deploy your application automatically
with policy-based image tagging
and highly optimized, fast, local workflows.
It also provides building blocks
and describes customizations for a CI/CD pipeline.
Use Skaffold run command end to end
or just part of Skaffold stages
from build to deploymet in your CI/CD system.
Skaffold does not require maintaining
a cluster site component so there is no overhead
or maintenance burden to your cluster.
A pluggable architecture is central to Skaffold's design,
allowing you to use a tool you prefer in each stage.
For example, Dockerfile and Jib
can be used for building the image,
deployment can be done using Kubectl and Helm,
and Docker images may be kept
on the local Daemon or pushed to our registry.
This could be useful for dev and prior scenario.
On a local machine, you can configure Skaffold
to build artifacts with local Docker Daemon
and deploy them to Docker desktop using Kubectl.
When the design is finalized,
you can switch to the production profile
and deploy with Helm to an Amazon EKS cluster.
All details about Skaffold are available on this website.
Let's take a look at the core now.
First thing, we will take a look at kube configs
that are available for us.
At this point, it is pointing
to the Amazon EKS cluster that we have created,
but as we are building and deploying our application
with Skaffold, we want to point it
to a local Kubernetes cluster.
As in this course, we have been using Docker for desktop,
so we will point it back to that.
Copy the context name and paste it here,
verify it that is indeed switch correctly
to Docker for desktop.
Now let's see what applications are running here.
Now, this is one of the applications
that we have deployed into our Kubernetes cluster
and this was indeed deployed as an Helm application.
So if you see Helm LS, it'll tell you actually
that the application was deployed as Helm.
So let's go ahead and delete this application for now
because when we are building with Skaffold,
we essentially want Skaffold to build the image,
prepare the Kubernetes manifest for us,
and use that to deploy to Kubernetes cluster.
So let's go ahead.
The application is now clean.
The first thing we need to do now here is install Skaffold.
Well, on this machine, I have already installed Skaffold.
So your output may look a bit different
if you're installing from scratch,
but essentially, you will have Skaffold in your CLI
and you can check the version
or without dash dash, version,
so it says version 0.20.0,
but if you gave an incorrect command,
as a matter of fact, it shows you
the complete list of commands
that are available to you.
So it's always handy to see what's available to us.
Now, app is our directory where
all the application code is set in.
If you look at, say Skaffold.yaml here.
Now, this is our Kubernetes configuration file
and it says, I'm going to generate an image
by the name arungupta/greeting.
That's the image name that we have been using all along
and when I'm deploying to Kubernetes,
then I'm going to use this particular manifest,
which is greeting.yaml.
Now, this greeting.yaml, if you remember,
is a manifest that we used earlier,
single manifest with tool resources defined over there
and so that's lying around in our repo,
so I'm going to copy it from standalone/greeting.yaml
and copy it to our current directory.
Let's open up greeting.yaml here.
Now, this of course has a deployment
and if I scroll forward, then I have service.
Now, one other thing to notice on line 18 is
we have ImagePullPolicy.
It says always.
Well, when I'm building with Skaffold,
I don't really want to push the image
and pull the image because that really adds up
to my overall development cycle.
So in this case, I would rely upon
the default image pull policy.
So delete that from here, save it,
and get out of it.
So now, at this point of time,
I think we are ready to start seeing the effect
of Skaffold, essentially.
So what I'm going to do is,
I'm going to bring a browser, split the screen,
and then bring the browser here.
Now, as you can see, our screen is split,
and on the left side we have terminal
and on the right side we have the browser.
So, let's go ahead, in the browser,
we can say localhost:8080/hello.
Well, this is where we expect our application to go live.
It's not live yet because nothing
has been deployed by Skaffold.
So let's go ahead, in our app directory,
let's run the command skaffold dev.
This took the Docker file, built the Docker image,
used the Kubernetes manifest, deploy that using Kubectl
to the cluster that is configured,
and then deployed all the required artifacts for us.
Now if I go in the browser here, refresh the page,
as you can see in the log, the app just got completed.
So now if I refresh it, walla, we see Hello.
That is indeed the kind of response
that we wanted to see here.
So now, think about your entire development cycle.
You can easily have IntelliJ or NetBeans,
whatever your favorite IDE up and running.
You keep making changes.
As soon as you save it, Skaffold is now listening
for those changes and then it right away builds the image
and deploy that using the manifest
to your Kubernetes cluster.
So enjoy your time debugging your applications
and building your applications using Skaffold.
Let's make sure we clean up Skaffold.
So go to the terminal, Control C,
and this will not only stop Skaffold,
but it'll also remove the deployment
and the service that was deployed
by Skaffold to Kubernetes cluster.